[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to
psychedelics today this is Joe Moore
coming at you from Breckenridge Colorado
on this episode Kyle and I talked to dr.
chris boucher who is a very interesting
character he went through over the
course of a number of years 73 high-dose
LSD sessions and had some very
interesting things to report back in
personal growth and and much more we get
into it in the episode and quite a bit
of detail and the the name of the book
is LSD and the mind of the universe we
are giving away three copies and you
could find that in the show notes we'll
have a link to the contest there and
also in our social media you can find a
link to our contests and giveaways
typically you can also find it just at
psychedelics today calm slash welcome
and it was a really mind-blowing episode
for me we don't really need to spoil
anything but dr. chris boucher has some
extraordinary things to share and as a
recently retired university professor
comes with quite a bit of perspective
and education on topics that i think we
should all be aware of if we're if we're
gonna get into the transpersonal so I
think that's it for right now so enjoy
this episode this show is brought to you
by on it oh and nit dot-com use the code
side today psy today at check out for
10% off everything but fitness equipment
I've tried a bunch of their products I
really do like their alpha brain product
which is kind of like a nootropic like a
cognitive enhancer and it's it's gotten
me out of some really tough situations
that I've been in in the past you know
business meetings and whatnot it's just
really helpful and if you're working on
a problem cognitively a difficult
problem alpha brain might be there to
help you along with some coffee I've
also got some good stuff like new mood
helps balance your neurotransmitters a
bit supplements where you might be
missing some things in your nutrition
and a lot of people just love it I've
used it a bunch of who actually used it
as a as a supplement to help me come
back from a long party weekend and it's
been great I've also got some melatonin
spray on there so if you having trouble
sleeping melatonin can really help
they've also got all sorts of like fish
oil and supplements that you can check
out nutrition as well at coffee and
various drinks shirts and other merch so
again on it Oh Anna and I t-dot-com /
actually that's just internet calm and
the code side today psy today for 10%
off your order
we are also brought to you by audible
audible trial calm like Adel x2 day or
again psychedelics today calm / welcome
and you can find your audible free trial
link 30-day free trial and a free
audiobook if you sign up using our link
and it helps us quite a bit there's some
great books up there from Tim Leary
books to terence mckenna and more even
the recent mike j book on mescaline is
up there and it is extraordinary so
check that out and let us know what you
think I I think if you're into podcasts
you will also like audiobooks so check
it out you owe it to your brain to give
it some books once in a while books are
where people can really flesh out an
idea in full and it's it's good for your
cognitive diet also we have a course
coming up called navigating psychedelics
for clinicians and therapists this
course is designed to help you
understand this coming landscape of
psychedelic drugs to clinical practice
there is a huge variety of interventions
coming up for different you know
indications and it's gonna be a really
big deal in medicine I would say it's
already a big deal in medicine so if you
want to understand micro dosing macro
dose
psycholytic psychedelic therapy at you
know the basic level this is only an
eight week course we can't teach her
everything more than you know probably
take five years to really really get you
to a blackbelt grade but this is where
you should start if you're a clinician
or therapist we've moved it from a five
week to an eight week course because
five weeks just really wasn't enough
we've got some really great master
classes there from different experts in
the field names like dr. Katherine
MacLean Ashley booth from the aware
project Mitch Gomez from Dance save as
Shannon Claire Carlin who helps run the
MDMA therapy training program at maps in
Mark Gorman Jessica Katzman society who
does ketamine assisted psychotherapy
we've got all sorts of great stuff up
here Raquel Bennett who runs the Korea
Institute and in the Korea conference
really big Anna ketamine as well and
more so check it out psychedelics today
calm or a psychedelic Education Center
calm you can learn more about our
navigating psychedelics for clinicians
and therapists classes start in February
we have course times that are friendly
for a European audience and a American
North American audience too so right
around 7:00 p.m. Eastern and 7:00 p.m.
London time I believe but the time
specifics are on the website so I hope
you join us or at least you know come to
our website to learn more or tell your
friends we would really like some
referrals and there's some great
testimonials up on the page too if you
want to check it out and of course also
comes with a I think a 30 day money back
guarantee I'll probably put that up on
the website soon but yeah so you know no
real risk if you jump in it's okay if it
if you find out it's not for you
but if your clinician with an interest
in this field we think this is for you
also if you like our show and you have
friends that might be interested in this
topic probably the most flattering thing
you can do to to us if you want to see
me blush tell your friends about
psychedelics today maybe send them a
link to a couple episodes or invite them
to the Facebook
groov were up to about 3000 people on
there now and that would be amazing
and if you want to support us with a
small monthly donation you can do that
to patreon.com/scishow stay o do
anything donations as small as two
dollars a month helped quite a bit
so thank you all for tuning in to
psychedelics I hope you enjoy this
interview with dr. chris boucher and
we'll see you on the other side
hello everybody welcome back to
psychedelics today today on the show we
have Chris page retired professor and
professor emeritus at Youngstown State
University and author of the recent book
LSD and the mind of the universe we're
also going to be doing a giveaway so
stay tuned on that Chris thanks for
joining us so I I had been talking about
you I think even a couple years ago when
I found out about your your kind of
long-term project before probably the
book was even with a publisher and I and
I was really excited by the idea and
then I just totally forgot and then all
of a sudden we got connected I think
through the publisher and know I'm very
excited to record with you because this
is quite the project you've undertaken
and you've got some very unique insights
to share how do you how do you like to
start this story like how did maybe
maybe we can start with psychedelics how
did sex telex come on your radar
initially well I just finished graduate
school I was publishing a few articles
out of my dissertation I was looking for
where to take my research I was a
brand-spanking-new University professor
and I met the work of Stan Grof and
that's what really snapped my head to
attention I did not have a psychedelic
history I was I finished graduate school
and religious studies as they pretty
deeply convinced atheistic Lee inclined
agnostic but I read Stan's work and
light bulb went off inside of me and I
said this is important not just to
psychology but it's important in
philosophy religion which was my
training and I wanted to get involved I
wanted
to it but of course it had been made
illegal so I split my life I in my
ordinary day job I continued to function
as professor of Religious Studies in the
department thought conventional kind of
courses or semi conventional courses and
I began a 20-year what became eventually
a 20-year journey working with LSD
following Stan Grof paradigm and then
pushing the limits of that paradigm
pretty far much farther than I
appreciated it time hmm and I was
trained in philosophy of religion so I
kept careful records careful notes tried
to make the engagement as clean and this
productive as possible and I knew there
would come a time sooner or later when I
would share the experiences or share the
insights from the experiences with a
broader audience and after I retired
from the University that time finally
came I'm perfect and what was the first
proof did you have any kind of previous
spontaneous mystical experiences or
anything before that that kind of lead
you into how important these things
might be now I've always been envious of
people who have had you know I was
twelve years old when I had my first
Ponte Gnaeus mystical experience and
that's not the way it's been for me I've
always been kind of deeply locked into
my body and my physical experience you
know I I was reasonably well educated in
Western religious thought I became
educated and Eastern religious thought
and a broad spectrum of contemporary
thought but no I had no background in
many ways I'm the last person you would
have expected to write a book on me on
deep psychedelic states of consciousness
it's just I mean I grew up in
Mississippi and I got a degree in
theology from the University of Notre
Dame before going on to graduate school
so this wasn't part of my background at
all I'm curious how did you stumble
across a stands work by not having any
exposure psychedelics beforehand well I
was reading widely in different areas I
was reading and kind of emerging
transpersonal psychology it interested
me
two people that whose work I've met my
first year out one was Ian Stevens and
his work at the University of Virginia
convinced me that reincarnation is a
simple fact of life and that was a jolt
because it hadn't been part of my
education anywhere and then I met Stan's
work and he had just published two years
before realms of the human unconscious
and that was a book that really did it
for me and so Ian gave me kind of
empirical evidence that there had to be
another dimension of reality other than
the physical world because there if
there is any time interval between the
death of one personality and the birth
of the second personality there has to
be a place for them to exist during that
time and Stan gave me the methodology
that allowed me to the prospect of
exploring that reality so I just decided
to go for it it's awesome so maybe next
like what what did the protocol look
like to you like it to me it looks like
a very clearly looks like the work being
done at Hopkins and by maps now but was
it any different in your perspective at
this point no I think it's pretty much
conventional in that respect you're
always working in complete isolation
you're always working with the sitter
you're always working with the very
carefully curated playlist of music the
differences after I did three medium
dose LSD sessions and then shifted to
working with very high levels of LSD so
I worked at 500 to 600 micrograms at
first I did it simply for our efficiency
because it was hard to get time in a
build career marriage or you know
arranging a session day and I wanted to
make the most out of every day I also
thought it would get me to my early goal
with enlightenment faster if I could
Kennedy do my Karma and bigger bites
that eventually is a project that just
dissolved along the way in the whole
concept of a personal spiritual journey
or strictly personal evolutionary
project that fell out along the way
so the difference I think is the
quantity the polyp that first the
psychedelic use is very different than
psilocybin their MDMA
working with very high doses which
changed the whole trajectory of the
experience and then I basically began to
curate a much more aggressive playlist
with the music I used a lot more
indigenous music I didn't use classical
Western music I use a much more
aggressive approach in music itself but
otherwise very much like contemporary
therapeutic approaches to psychedelics
yeah huh I guess track a little bit too
so your book really kind of covers these
was it 73 high-dose session so we like
your book is covering all these insights
of your experiences and some of your
philosophical work and really
understanding consciousness from these
experiences so I don't know I forget if
we gave it a little show there so that's
just to give some context of what we're
talking about and what Joe meant about
protocol of how you're setting that up
and I'm curious why did the music change
over time I happened upon some
indigenous chanting music and I threw it
into my session on the next day and the
next week and it had such a profound
impact on the intensity of the session
it basically rattled my cage much more
aggressively than some of the more even
aggressive classical music I like the
effect I recognize it's out of more
disorienting more giving me stronger
support for going deeper into
consciousness so I just began to
cultivate and collect the type of music
yeah that's really interesting and from
your perspective how important is music
when you're doing high dose psychedelics
or just like it all like kind of therapy
and that self-discovery format I think
it's very important now I've done
sessions without music eventually after
long down the road and I've done
psilocybin sessions within the path
music but
and working with a very strong
psychedelic like LSD and working at
these very high doses which by the way I
don't recommend I truly do not recommend
that people do what I did I wouldn't do
it the same way mm-hmm if I did it today
but basically when you're working with
opening consciousness that radically
music is it has a tremendously powerful
effect I would maybe estimate it has a
concentrating amplifying effect by five
or ten times doing it without its
psychedelic or without music so I
remember that and I started using music
only in the fourth session and the jump
that happened in that fourth session was
just enormous so I think it's very
important yeah it's the topic that keeps
coming up I guess within the psychedelic
community especially when talking about
putting playlists together for therapy
and I just recently recorded an episode
with a fellow who composes music and
ended up taking his experiences and
making music out of it so yeah I think
the music piece was just really
interesting it's a huge part of breath
work as well yeah yeah Helen Bonney of
course her early work clapping the
various stages of an LSD journey and the
characteristics of music that support
each of those stages as we go important
work yeah so where did this idea come
from of wanting to engage in this these
high dose sessions like did you start
off saying I'm going to do you know X
amount of sessions and really dive in or
did you go in saying I'll have a few and
then see where it goes or just you have
this idea kind of mapped out of doing X
amount of sessions or had a goal with it
at all no I did not have any trajectory
or any goal I saw the range of
experiences that Stan described in
realms of the even unconscious I saw you
know I since I had a pretty good
grounding in Western philosophical
thought and theological thought I had a
good sense of the significance of these
states of consciousness that he was
describing and
believe that the people who would be
making the most important contributions
and my discipline would be speaking out
of an experiential basis in a matter of
years not out of a theory simply a
theoretical basis this was common in my
time so I just I knew that to do that
you just had to get in and do your work
and I had no idea how long the work
would be I was still thinking in the
early years so you know you can
basically go through ego death and then
you get unrestricted access you know to
the deep consciousness of existence what
I found of course is that it's not a
matter of simply of shattering the ego
and going through ego death the universe
has many many layers and while it's all
holographically integrated in a sense if
you engage the universe systematically
and with the carefully defined kind of
methodology the universe takes you in by
degrees it takes you in by layers and as
you move into a new layer of
consciousness and your consciousness
stabilizes at that new layer sooner or
later if you keep pushing it the method
you're using has sufficient power to
take you to the very edge of that new
layer you're going to go through yet
another death and rebirth process it's
different than you go death the bills
upon that process and you go through a
series of death and rebirth processes
and as you explore progressively deeper
and levels of consciousness and at least
that's how it happened for me it may be
different for other people and different
substances but how it happened to me
there was a systematic progression entry
into communion with the universe and
that's where I laid out the book I just
basically took it in start at the
beginning
try to I try to describe the recognize
the levels of consciousness that I went
into consolidating the story to make it
as efficiently conveyed as possible and
then each chapter basically goes into
another level of consciousness or
another level of engagement with the
universe how would you I guess define
that layer of consciousness like like
what do you mean by that of getting to
these next layers
you know sometimes you hear in like the
New Age like oh you send 3d to 5d and
maybe that's how you know some people
are making sense of that but how would
you describe that moving through layers
well I adopted the working vocabulary
that Stan has developed in his books of
between psychic levels subtle level and
causal level consciousness
differentiates low and high psychic low
and high subtle and low and high causal
and that's a vocabulary that works for
me of course the universe is so deep and
has so many hundreds of levels those are
just approximations and I don't have any
vested interest in a particular model of
the universe our model of how many
levels of consciousness there are when I
was going through and writing a book and
looking back retrospectively at where
this journey went and how many core
death and rebirth cycles there were
there many sons like as a death neared
birth but four fundamental death and
birth cycles and therefore of different
levels of consciousness from the roots
into I found I differentiated five
levels the first takes place at the
personal mind the level of personal mind
and that culminates in ego death where
you lose your ego occur time-space
identity the second takes place or took
place for me at the collective mind its
dynamics fundamentally at the early
subtle levels of consciousness it has to
do with the species mind dimensions of
species existence the third level is
archetypal mind where when it's moving
into the highest level level moving
beyond simply the collective
consciousness of the species moving into
different levels of archetypal reality
the fourth for me is console mind causal
oneness free moving into profound states
of non-dual reality causal reality
and then the fifth is I called I'm
luminosity or particularly the clear
experience of ultra-clear particularly
clear dimension of life and there are
many many different you know degrees of
life that one encounters the closest I
could find in the conventional spiritual
literature to this was in the Buddhist
concept of dharmakaya the clear light of
absolute reality the light that pre that
exists prior to of the Big Bang right
standing in kind of talks about that
with his first LSD experience right yeah
we're talking about is you know for
seeding and way out yeah yeah thinking
about these levels of consciousness and
thinking about this like kind of news
that you know like Renaissance with
psychedelic therapy how important do you
think it is for therapists to kind of
understand these these levels of
consciousness when working with clients
if you're going to be a psychedelic
therapist of course because there are
many different levels of consciousness
as a therapist one works at different
levels of consciousness so I don't think
a therapist has to have deep familiarity
with all the levels to work at the early
levels
I think conventional wisdom it's a good
wisdom that if you're going to be
working with clients going into deep
non-ordinary states of consciousness you
must be personally familiar with those
states otherwise how can you be the
stabilizing factor in the room when
someone is losing their mind and is
terrified of losing everything they'd
love to be real but you haven't been
there yourself if you haven't learned to
let it go how can you help someone else
let go at those deep level so I think
it's very important and that poses a
challenge of course in trainer academic
therapists because we're in this gray
period down but that's going to be
changing you know we're gonna be moving
into a different legal environment soon
I hope look that you guys are doing and
other people are doing is really
creating new possibilities but I think
you know personal experience is really
Metiria yeah thanks for that it's been a
hot kind of topic I guess people have
been exploring should therapist really
understand this this these layers of
consciousness and these experiences to
be a guide
yeah she's interesting this whole idea
of yes you can get this training but you
don't necessarily need a session but
then there's this whole vast realm of
religious and philosophy like this
material that discusses all of these
states in kind of a literature form or
we can go experiential with it too and I
my problem lately is I really want a
very strong argument for this and I
haven't really personally been able to
come up with one a strong argument for
the importance of personal experience
here at least personally at least
personal experience but the point I
think that you made which is unique is
there's these very complex spiritual
experiences you can have transpersonal
experiences you have and that's not
really discussed in the literature as
far as I can tell in terms of that at
least the recent literature like how do
you talk to somebody about this you know
yes you became Buddha for millennia and
now you're trying to you know work at
your day job again what what do you do
but yeah any comments on that kind of
thing well I think it's important for
people to have a good solid theoretical
grounding I mean I think it's important
to read deeply in transpersonal
psychology and works like Stan Grof and
the various people who have been guiding
people or taking people into these
domains and a compiled book large
database experiential database but if
you don't have personal experience of
these realities you're always working at
a disadvantage and you can have a verbal
understanding of what it means to go
through into certain territories but if
you haven't some personal exposure of
this territory you're going to make
mistakes you're going to draw inferences
where an experienced journeyer would not
all those inferences you're going to
find correlations where there aren't
correlations
you'll miss correlations where there are
correlations these are very very complex
experiences I mean my journey lasted
from 79 to 99 I'm covering a 20-year
spread I didn't publish this book for
another 20 years and partly that was
because of the legal complications I had
to retire from the university before I
did this but partly it took me years
during the sessions and years after the
sessions to work out the complex
overlapping phenomenology of these
states of consciousness and you know if
I were I mean I think the word guide is
maybe not the best word I mean that
implies a role of active in guidance
have acted the direction which is not
really the case for I think working with
much of this work doing much of this
work to be a sitter to be able to hold
the ground to be able to help somebody
go to the edge of everything they know
to be real and true about themselves and
of the world and help them jump over the
edge to give them the support that they
need to lose their mind to really let go
of everything they know to be real and
true I don't know how one can really do
that without having first-hand
experience of those domains and so to
that extent the I think the
effectiveness of therapists our sitters
will be limited through their own depth
of experience they can be very very good
and skillful at levels one two perhaps
but maybe not so much at levels three
four or five or whatever you get the
sense of it great yeah that's right
that's kind of interesting to think
about even like practical stuff like
going to different people for different
like sessions maybe I mean obviously you
have no idea what the hell is gonna come
up right but somebody focusing more on
personal dynamics right and I think it's
good right now we're proceeding very
slowly very methodically we're using
gentler psychedelics as
no federal protocol suggesting using LSD
in the quantum the high levels that I
used it and I think that's it that's
good that's important it's important
that we proceed methodological carefully
we have a window you know we lost our
window 40 years ago yeah the window is
back and it's important that we move
very judiciously as we expand that
window but sooner or later we're going
to find what we found in the early years
of psychedelic work and that is feeling
the personal unconscious is only the
first step of a long journey into the
universe into the deeper dimensions of
consciousness which take us into the I
don't know what do you call it I think
of it as the mind of the universe the
mind of the cosmos it's like I hesitate
to call it the divine mind or the mind
of God because that language has very
strong cultural overtones that I don't
really want to pay for it but when one
dissolves when one completely dissolves
a time-space level and just dissolves
into increasingly comprehensive fields
of experience and open realities to you
that you've never even dreamed possible
and if you go back again and again and
then the article way levels of
consciousness and at first swallow you
up whole and it's very very hard to stay
consciously aware at these new levels
and that's why I think we often call
them ineffable but right if you go back
consistently over and over again what
happens is you acclimate you learn how
to stay conscious at levels of
consciousness that previously were not
able to stay conscious in and that's a
pattern that repeats itself as you go
deeper and deeper yeah I find that to be
really true are you familiar with this
gentleman uh Kalindi ie
from Detroit I'm not he is a very strong
proponent of these high-level doses and
I I struggle with his arguments around
it but but yours a you know it seems
quite sensible it's you know how do we
approach it I'm not a proponent of high
doses myself I mean I did this work
I came through it see in the early years
the early high dose work done in Spring
Grove hospital with terminally ill
patients well it's limited to three
sessions low dose psychedelic work
open-ended high dose work was limited to
three sessions and I thought going into
it I thought well if you could do it
safely three times you could do it
safely more time what I found was that
by doing it as systematically as I did
and pushing that edge as hard as I did
it required that issues arose challenges
arose which had not been discussed in
the early levels of the work
opportunities for insights and
understanding emerge but also challenges
navigating these increasingly intense
levels and large levels of consciousness
and what it does to your body and mind
and as you go into these realities and
how it affects people around you mm-hmm
I found that my students never knew
about my work I mean I kept my work
completely isolated from anyone on
campus but I found at a certain point my
students began to be activated by my
psychedelic work there was a natural
contagion that was happening because
consciousness at these deeper levels is
open-ended it's like a lake you to a
rock in the lake the ripples spread out
so when one person goes very very deep
people around them are naturally going
to be impacted and I had to learn how to
take care the activations that my
students were experiencing that's I
wrote the book the living classroom s
the read that came out of years and
years of trying to understand this
dynamic between my mind and their mind
and our minds together in the context of
you know consciousness at large so it's
not just a matter of taking care of your
own body and your own emotions
and your intimate relationship since
taking care of everyone who's touched by
you work at a larger collective level I
wouldn't push it as hard if I were doing
it again I would it's not that I would
avoid working with high doses but I
would balance it working with two lower
doses and I would balance working with
LSD which pushes a high cosmological
ceiling with psilocybin work in
ayahuasca work is much more kind of
embodied psychedelic States yeah man
there's a couple questions I want to ask
you nauseous direction I want to go into
but I want to come back to the this idea
the the ripples right because I've
thought about this a lot and I'm kind of
curious what your take is on this of
having some of these experiences and
I've even had it in breath work sessions
where it's like tapping into I guess how
you express like this this lake you know
you kind of toss it in and there's like
ripples and time wave or something like
that where all these kind of
synchronistic things might start
happening and I'm wondering from your
perspective you know you're talking
about your students changing do you
think that was more in the sense of your
presence and the way that you are
showing up or do you think it was kind
of more in that subtle realm world where
you're going into these states and it is
having more of a ripple on some other
sort of level I think it's in both and I
think it does ask my work changed me
certainly my presence in the classroom
changed but the more interesting aspect
I think is working at the subtle level I
mean I began for example I found that
when I was lecturing and just just
looking for a random example looking for
an example to illustrate some concept
that I wanted to make you know was
bringing forward and I would pause I
would just stop in my mind would go
blank and I this idea would come to me
to give this example I would use that
example and students began to come up to
me after class and began to say very
quietly when they were sure no one was
just you know it's funny you use that
example today because that's exactly
what happened to me this week and this
I thought this was just you know an
interesting accident but it kept
happening and happened repeatedly not
only was it happening frequently enough
but I knew it was it had to have some
significance but the deeper I went in my
own work the more students were being
touched in very very deep private
personal areas of their live lives
places where they needed healing places
where they were blocked places where
they needed some help getting through to
the next stage of their own development
so as I was kind of facing my blocks and
entering into deep communion with the
intelligence of life It was as if the
very fabric the intelligent fabric
around me was being activated and
triggering these kind of ha moments with
my students and and their own
confrontations with their blocks and the
students knew that something unusual was
happening I couldn't exactly explain
what it was but I had to you know we all
knew something was happening so I would
have students taking my courses aren't
ly for the intellectual content partly
because they wanted to be in the energy
of the room mmm but I found it wasn't
just that there was a resonance
spontaneously occurring between my
energy and their energy there was a
second phenomena that I discuss in the
living classroom and that is the
affective group feels wow that is that
just like more for genetic feels Rupert
Sheldrake's concept of morphic fields
except these are smaller these are not
species widefield these are more
specific fields I found that there were
there were psychic fields growing around
my courses that were getting stronger
year by year the more students studied
with me in these courses and it was a
field that was being generated by their
learning so hundreds and hundreds of
students learning over many years
creates a field that was impacting and
accelerating and deepening a learning of
subsequent students and subsequent
semesters so it there were multiple
factors on going into this phenomenon
yeah it's super fascinating and
I don't know how to make sense of it at
times so yeah I think thanks for sharing
that but you know it turns out that once
you let go of an atomistic psychology
once you and it's not that atomistic
psychology is really true that is the
psychology which treats our individual
consciousness as the individual
standalone phenomenon we know that
that's true but underneath that is a
quantum reality as a quantum psychology
and once you let go of this idea that
everything that happens around us can be
explained in terms of the of the
aggregate of simply individual awareness
and open to this larger participatory
cosmos where there is a deeper context
it's like a deeper time that's always
moving in and out it's always flowing it
it actually becomes very coherent it's
very easy to understand it says that you
have to shift your metaphysical basis
right yeah that makes sense that makes
sense
it's like plate tectonics you know in
the early years it was very very hard to
see that just looked ridiculous but once
we began to see it and a whole lot of
data began to make sense and it was
elegant and simple and transparent yeah
I'm curious also to kind of go back to
that idea of kind of incorporating
mushrooms and ayahuasca you kind of said
that it seems to be a little bit more
body medicine could you talk about the
difference between your experiences with
LSD and the more plant-based
psychedelics this is a question that we
we've been asked a lot and I think we
even chatted about in our course last
three nights ago of like you know what
is the dream stream like LSD is is that
a little bit different like I vote like
somebody said oh I always heard it's
like more psychological than say you
know more kind of like biographical and
doesn't have this like spirit right
where you albert hofmann so right he
said psilocybin seems to be something in
there right so yeah I wonder what your
take is well inevitably my take is based
on my own personal experiences so it's
always dangerous to generalize on the
and then up one so I just don't want to
over generalize psychedelics which have
been used historically have feels
associated with them so we've been using
mushrooms for thousands and thousands of
years and I think there is a certain
sense in which around the biochemistry
of this substance they are fields which
human experience of human beings
engaging the deeper dimensions of their
own consciousness and consciousness at
large
using this substance and when one takes
this substance you don't just introduce
a chemical into your body which then you
have a private experience of this
substance but there is a sense in which
how the substance affects you is
mediated in part by the history of your
species with this substance and I think
that's also true with ayahuasca the
visit
you know multi thousand year history
surrounding ayahuasca with LSD
we don't have those fields I mean LSD is
a new substance and I don't think the
difference is fundamentally organic
versus synthetic I don't find that
discussion terribly illuminating I mean
our experience in the sixties and
seventies that's that's a few decades
that's not a whole lot of experience
when it comes to these types of fields
that I'm talking about so in my
experience living quality that kind of
living intelligence quality I'm sure
that there are spiritual agencies on the
other side which may account for part of
that and part of it I think has to do
with humanity's living experience with
these substances and all the experiences
I've had with them LSD strikes me as
kind of cleaner in that respect it
doesn't have that same kind of
programmed quality now I don't know what
it would have been like if I had been
working with low doses of LSD if I've
been working with low doses I'm sure it
would have activated out my experiences
would have been much more personal and
psycho dynamically oriented but working
with the very high doses that I worked
with after the first 15 sessions are so
when the sessions were at their peak
hours I was not working in relationship
to my personal psyche at all in fact
pretty much in the book I I drop out the
personal story as much as possible
because the personal story kind of
showed up at the beginning of a session
and at the end of a session and these
were very meaningful experiences to me
they're very healing they're very you
know helpful giving me insights to
relevant things in my life
but during the peak hours I was usually
operating are beyond the range of
personal psyche when I'm working with
psilocybin I don't have that experience
of being so far removed from my personal
reality I don't have I only have limited
experience with ayahuasca I like the
medicine very much is a very powerful
medicine it's been giving me some
extraordinary health and extraordinary
clarity here and there but I don't have
enough experience with it comparable to
my 70-some high dose set LSD sessions to
do a careful a be my basic sense is that
the cert assignment tends to be less
evocative less disruptive less opening
up to the deep deep levels ayahuasca is
more disruptive opening up to deeper
levels still and at least for me
LSD working with it as I did opens up to
very very deep cosmological levels
eventually I don't know of people I have
not seen though I haven't tried to do an
exhaustive search in the literature but
I have not seen people having
experiences with psilocybin and for the
most part even ayahuasca that correlate
to the experiences I was having in the
last 10 years of my work with LSD but
again that's just my personal experience
it's you know
it's not a scholarly Ryerson right yeah
and what were some of your experiences
like towards the last ten years like I
guess yeah could you give us some
examples of like those big themes that
you're working through if it wasn't so
personal or psychodynamic well you know
that's a hard question because there's
so many levels and there's so many of
some it's it's always tricky to kind of
jump into the latter stages because
every stage builds upon earlier stages
but Ray one of the one of the barometers
I would mention for example would be
time when I went into subtle level
reality I for a year I had a consistent
set of experiences where I experienced
the totality of my life from beginning
to end at simultaneously present in in
immediate now so I I not only had
insights into my old age and I didn't
experience my age in a sort of abstract
theoretical way I experienced the
distilled essence of my entire life
boiled down to right now and all of the
data of my life was present at this
particular moment in time this was such
a mind shattering possibility that when
I first came back out of this experience
I couldn't remember it it took me
entering into it multiple times to be
able to really be able to hold on to all
of those experiences which I write about
in the chapter called deep time in the
soul going beyond that I began to enter
into archetypal dimensions of archetypal
reality I began to have experiences of
something like the Platonic domain of
the reality behind time-space reality
except it wasn't archetypes like Plato
conceives of them Plato conceives of
archetypes as unchanging ideas in the
mind of a transcendent intelligence my
experience these
ass huge beans that were so huge I
couldn't wrap my mind around them I the
best my mind could do in imaging I'm was
to sort of see them as galaxies and I
think this simply my mind's attempt to
image something that one would measure
in hundreds of thousands of light-years
of scope but these were beings that were
responsible for creating time and space
and orchestrating the unfolding of
reality in time and space I went into
into what I call deep time which is not
eternity it isn't timelessness
but it's different magnitudes of time
experience within the simultaneous or
broader frame of reference so I had many
experiences and became one of the
overarching themes of my book of my
sessions and therefore the book of
humanity's future where humanity was
going what our moment in history was
what the archetypal trajectory of
humanity was what was happening behind
the scenes in this global sustainability
crisis that we're entering into what I
have a chapter in the book called the
birth of the future human lots and lots
of going into deep time on going deep
into humanity's future experiencing what
is attempting to be born in this period
of history whatever how evolution works
on this larger broader scale and then
eventually going deep into various
episodes of call someones Shunyata
emptiness the experience of primal void
you know the void is behind physical
manifest existence experience of cosmic
law because of just being overwhelmed
with and I think love is basically a
kind of characteristic can be inherent
oneness of life we really deep deep
oneness that
existence is then you know the emotional
counterpart of that is loves compassion
at the motion of oneness and then
eventually going beyond oneness Beyond
and the void into this diamond
luminosity state which once I touched
the diamond luminosity this occupied the
last five years in my work
once I touched it it was a state of a
state of being state of consciousness so
incredibly clear so exquisitely clear
that once I touched it I wasn't
interested in exploring any of the other
dimensions of consciousness that I had
been exploring for years returning to
that condition became my sole objective
mmm the next in the twenty six twenty
six sessions covering four years of work
I only touched that condition four times
and in between those four sessions were
tremendous cleaning tremendous
purification tremendous detoxification
so that I could return to that condition
and experience it more clearly more
completely
so this there's a lot of levels and yeah
that's what makes the story complex
story to tell yeah well people should
check out the book and read through all
this so yeah yeah that's nice now that
the book is out you know they don't have
to get it from me speaking you know I've
done my best to tell the story as
cleanly and simply as I can with without
a lot of the philosophical baggage that
may have been in some way earlier works
right is there a story that you'd like
to tell the most about your project that
that maybe you could share here or any
any kind of specific Jim you like to
share the most you know it's a story of
a journey and every phase of the journey
was an exciting adventure in its own
right at the time when I was entering
into that territory and each one was
absolutely fascinating and captivating
to me when I was going through this
and so I don't have a favorite per se I
mean I think of course the diamond
luminosity is from my own personal heart
that is the deepest dimensions of the
story the deepest aspect I think the
story of the birth of the future human
where reincarnation is taking humanity
is an important component of the story
because I what happened to me in one
particular session in the 38 session
without this cutting down to the
important piece here is that I began to
experience all my lives coming into the
all my former lives there kind of being
integrated I've done a lot of other
works hypnotic regression work to
familiarize myself with some of my life
history but I experienced all my former
lives coming in very quickly it was like
wrapping string on around a tight school
hmm and they came a moment when all of
that energy with all those living
experiences they fused and when they
fused they ignited and there was a
tremendous explosion of diamond light
from my chest and it threw me into a
completely different state of
consciousness and and I think what I was
being shown in this experience what I
was being given was an understanding of
where reincarnation is taking us because
classically reincarnation
you know leads to a gradual hopefully of
yet most sustained development more
compassion more understanding developing
our qualities of our deep essential
nature more and more richer and richer
levels we make mistakes we go back we we
learn we go forward in this process but
I don't think the process is really
about taking us incremental II to
eventually producing a better life which
is incremental II +1 from where we were
previously I think eventually if we die
and we expand in the Africa death
condition we're born and we contract
into a immediate one life focus we die
and we expand
or we go back and forth and if we keep
this up just for hundreds and thousands
and tens of thousands and hundreds of
thousands of years if we keep this up
sooner or later the totality of our
consciousness which most people would
experience only after they die a deep
soul sooner or later that soul
consciousness I think the evolutionary
trajectory is for this consciousness to
wake up inside our physical incarnation
and that's what I call the birth of the
diamond soul when you wake up and we are
not tempted to identify with simply
egoic this body mind kind of structure
that we know ourselves to be an internal
being we know ourselves to be in
relationship with other eternal beings
we have a fellow sense of history with
many many of these beings and the
compassion that comes with that history
and a sense of open transparency to the
cosmic intelligence at large I think
that's basically where we're going and I
don't know I think this is not a private
experience it's a collective experience
the universe doesn't work in small
numbers the universe works with all
species and what's happening is really
an evolving of our entire species in the
direction if they're one thing I guess I
keep I would come back to one thing
which I wish I could tell us reach into
my heart and communicate the people it
would be to let go of this terribly
constricting fear of death because if
we're afraid of dying we've got it all
backwards you know here's where the hard
work is done when we die we have all
this Hollywood [__] about what
happens to us when we die and most of it
most of its just trashed right when we
die we enter you know we go back home we
enter the vast majority of us entered
pretty very easily straight into the
depth of where we come from and there
are many layers of that reality so
there's a lot of work to do but there's
absolutely nothing to fear and death one
of the things
it's come out of my work is I just I
don't have a fear of death I mean dying
it's a nice but being dead has
absolutely no seriously in fact it's
something I look forward to very much
Kyle how do you respond to that that
resonates a lot with me of what you're
saying like kind of gave me a little bit
of chills so I don't know if you know my
my story listeners probably know this
we've been following us for a while but
when I was 16 I had a near-death
experience and so ruptured my spleen
when I was in the MRI or the cat scan
machine I was overwhelmed with this this
blissful feeling of love and beauty that
was going back home and there is a sense
something came over me and said you're
going back home you're going to you're
going back to the stars where we all
come from and this you know physical
life's gonna cease to exist but you're
gonna continue on and that was really
beautiful and it wasn't scary when I
when I first heard I was dying and it's
like they said you know you have
internal injuries
you're losing massive blood I thought it
you know I was pretty terrified but in
that moment as I was shifting away total
acceptance and so I actually had a
really hard time coming back here right
because yeah and I could probably
resonate with that idea the diamond
loose luminosity of wanting to return
there because I definitely resonate with
that feeling of wanting to return to
that oneness that I felt on that night
and that's what got me into like
exploring psychedelics is having very
similar experiences with psychedelics
and correlating that to my near-death
experience and wanting to get back there
and over time and maybe you'll resonate
with this is like the period in between
of stopping and actually focusing on the
integration and I keep coming back to
this idea that the work is here this is
where all the magic happens and how do
we really an audio that and show up yeah
yeah to to complain about the
restrictions of time and space is kind
of like a weightlifter complaining about
the weights
and this is worth this is where the work
is done time space is an extremely
demanding environment but with progress
made here has exponentially important
for what we're what's available to us
when we die from all the various
populations people I feel the closest
affinity from my own psychedelic work
are the near-death episode people I
thought near-death episode research for
years at my university in one of my
courses and so I've really read deeply
in the near-death literature and that's
the closest correlation I find with the
deepest of the psychedelic experiences
very strong correlations and can ring
was one of the near-death showed you
know one of the founders of that
movement and I have we've written
together and dialogue together he's a
good friend around that yeah
yeah it's it's a powerful topic yeah
something I think about often right yeah
and I guess my early experiences got me
really on this path was just like you
know I enter this space where just felt
so similar with like this I had an
experience with psilocybin we're just so
on par with dying you know just
captivated my attention of how could a
substance like this I mean I guess in a
sense you know if you take it from the
second therapeutic like lens it's like
reliving trauma right I'm kind of my
psyche is processing that experience and
I'm going back there to kind of
reprocess it but you have plenty of
other experiences where it still felt
pretty similar and on par with that
original near-death experience
yeah I've died many times I mean I feel
like and that would be old impetus in
the early work at Spring Grove was to
give people a foretaste of where they're
going going and they died and you know
I've gone through that in charman's this
is very for their territory so there's
nothing unique to be there but I've gone
through that death process so many times
it's it feels very comfortable and very
natural and coming back is sometimes
challenging I mean a hardest chapter for
me to write in this book was the last
chapter coming on the mountain
it basically tells the story of what
happened after I stopped my sessions and
I basically entered into period
eventually a deep existential loneliness
I found that I had really worked very
hard in integrating my sessions I did
all of all but very carefully I wrote
them down I studied them I tried to
incorporate their teaching into my life
I really thought I had it you know
locked down pretty well
and I thought therefore that I could
stop my sessions and I would just be
able to kind of collect and ponder the
many gifts that I had been given through
the years what I learned was that
integrating an entire journey is
different than integrating individual
sessions hmm and that by repeatedly
going deeper and deeper and deeper into
the universe and experienced the
exquisite ecstasy of dissolving into
sheer light repeatedly and entering into
dissolving into the crystalline body of
the divine when for various reasons I
made the decision that it was time for
this work to stop I found that I had a I
was suffering from a loss of communion
mm a deep deep existential sadness and
eventually years down the road I found
that I was really just waiting to die
mmm that I could return to the light and
I realized you know that wasn't right
that's not the way this work is supposed
to end and you know my entire body was
screaming failure to integrate yeah but
because I had been so careful trying to
integrate it wasn't clear what the where
the imbalance had come in what I found
eventually is that it was an imbalance
that had I had cultivated inadvertently
between transcendence and imminence it's
all in the divine the physical universe
is the divine I knew that it was the
divine I knew that we're never absent
from the divine for any moment it's only
our own illusion so people see that
sense but I had pushed so deeply into
transcendence in this to a certain
degree I had lost
footing in the imminent divine and I had
to make a conscious choice and and
undertake specific practices to really
kind of ground myself back in the
imminent divine for the remainder of my
years on this earth it took about 10
years mm-hmm I mean really get solidly
comfortably back inside my time space
suit Wow I could imagine after 20 years
of deep exploration I mean that's a I'd
say that's probably a pretty long
integration process yeah yeah and that's
I think you know this respect my story
is sometimes described as a hero's
journey but it's not the hero's journey
the way it's usually thought of it's not
really going and experiencing something
and bringing back you know something
valuable for your culture for yourself
you know it's all it's tempered by its
tempered by a kind of lesson that comes
from dealing with not the failure of
some aspect of the journey but actually
of the success of the journey of being
wounded by the sheer beauty of what one
experiences you literally are wounded by
the beauty of the universe by the
experiencing the extraordinary
intelligence of the universe
extraordinaire in love of the universe
and if if you're not able to create a
container inside your historical
existence where you can breathe this
intelligent skin and breathe the
compassion in then you know it's like it
literally can kind of become painful
mm-hmm so it my story isn't part of a
it's a cautionary tale it cautions
against and even though I tried to be as
methodical as possible and do it as
carefully as possible and integrated as
deeply as I could it cautions against
going too deep too fast if you can call
20 years too fast going too deep or
deeper than you can actually
productively use
and I think my memories have changed not
only the the rest of the years of my
life but my memories have changed the
trajectory of my own Souls entire
evolution so I don't think of the
results of my journey as necessarily
coming to fruition in just you know the
next few decades I think they come to
fruition over lifetimes it's changed the
entire trajectory of my deep
evolutionary project and I think that's
true for anyone who enters into this you
know em you enter into deep intimacy
which life in this way you purifying
your purifying you off throw a lot of
you know painful trauma whatever
whatever but you also open up to a
different a different relationship with
the universe so I right now my primary
way of being with the universe in this
intimate way is not working with
psychedelics that time of my life is
largely over I'm 70 years old and this
is you know somewhat of a young man's
game young person's game I I do a lot of
content area of classical contemporary
practice I do a lot of Audrianna
practice which I find to be very
complimentary to keep psychedelic work I
don't feel any cross purposes between
the two different work methods of
working I should mention in this context
though I think it would be a mistake to
hold to sort of evaluate the value of
psychedelic eep psychedelic work by
holding it accountable just to the
Enlightenment project I started this
work with an agenda of an Enlightenment
project what happened was my personal
Awakening was completely eclipsed
eventually by a project of a collective
awakening all my work
began to be focused on a type of healing
of the collective psyche that went
beyond my personal healing and on
awakening of the collective psyche it
went beyond my personal awakening and
then it became just a radical adventure
a cosmological adventure going so deep
that it would be impossible to bring
those experiences back and stabilize
them in a some kind of spiritually
awakened state it's just a different
project because the Enlightenment
project and cosmological exploration
project these are two different projects
that have to be evaluated on their own
terms my two cents now yeah I would
agree yeah yes this is quite the
interview certainly like much I knew it
was gonna be a big topic but I'm always
impressed by how big some of these
things become and yeah I I do think some
people are doing similar projects
nowadays though yeah I want I wonder if
LSD is still in vogue in this context I
don't know I worked with LSD primarily
because that was the work that standard
done most of his early work with and I
trusted what I saw in Stan's research
and I trusted that the history there in
the methodology he developed I only
began to work with other psychedelic
substances pretty much after my LSD work
was done and so the mind that I brought
to my psilocybin experiences and my
ayahuasca experiences in Southie atiba
norm so on and so forth the mind was
that the mind that had been transformed
by all my previous psychedelic work
which is the other thing too you know
important to take account of that the
mind experiences that we have reflect
the entire history of our working in
non-ordinary states of consciousness so
if we've done this where
only a few two or three times well then
we have that kind of deficit experienced
we bring to it but if we've been doing
this work for years and years and years
and actually these substances are going
to have a different kind of effect right
because we've been transformed the way I
think of this is that listen my
experience the universe is an infinite
ocean of possibilities it's just an
infinite ocean of will never ever get to
the end of it I think and we'll get to
an end state that was the project to get
the thing let me get to the end
condition that was taken away from me
along the journey I began to understand
it's an infinite infinite progression I
get distracted from my original point by
that particular particular image yeah
I'll just stick with that I lost my
train of thought but all that works for
us because it's our orientation is this
graph en meets Whitehead and John Cobb
kind of synthesis and yeah you know
largely this that's at least the project
of the company here but yeah it's it's
good to hear that you know it innit it
rhymes in a sense with that Bodhisattva
vow of let's keep going like there's not
this endpoint of Nirvana until
everybody's there and it's gonna be a
long long time if time even enters into
that discussion it's a long time except
of course it's feeding up you know it's
kind of like our collective karma as a
species just coming out it's hard you
know the whole history you know our
culture is basically a culture that's
been built by ego and for all the many
virtues and values of the ego it's
basically it's fundamentally a
fragmented condition and therefore it
creates the world is deeply in balance
with between ourselves and between other
life forms and you know that world is
coming to a radical and accelerated
breakdown and and I think this is I
could part of the evolutionary pivot
that
you're coming into a time where we
literally will not be able to continue
operating out the same not just an
economic or industrial or technological
basis but we will not be able to
continue functioning out of the same
psychological basis of your
consciousness so how fast we might make
this transition if we use historical
projections from the past would probably
deeply underestimate how fast this could
happen in fact in that chapter in the
birth the future human where I talk
about particularly one special session
fifty-five it could be deep into the
death and rebirth of humanity the
message that kept coming through over
and over and over again was this is
going to happen much faster than anyone
could've met his imagining gonna happen
much faster hmm you know so I think
we're the game is getting very very
intense we're being driven into Mon
linear dynamics little feels that you're
conscious that no collective psyche is
being hyper stimulated by the trauma
that were going into and when systems we
know from physical systems from physical
systems enter into nonlinear conditions
they can do things that they could not
do when they were in lower energy linear
conditions and I think that something
similar happens with psychic fields the
integrated psychic field that holds all
of our individual minds and that psychic
field is hyper stimulated by the
suffering that we're going into
but it's hyperstimulated moods who will
eventually move into a nonlinear
condition and the rules of nonlinear
conditions of dynamics apply to psychic
fields as well as physical fields small
changes can elicit huge outcomes latent
connectivity which was kind of invisible
at the linear level becomes suddenly
active and visible at the nonlinear
local things can happen much faster at
the nonlinear level in a linear level so
you know we're going into a trial my
fire and I think this trial is actually
part of the con
intention of the creative intelligence
itself I don't think it's accidental and
I don't think they're any victims here
you know personally my own personal
believe this we all chose to be here we
chose to be part of this time in history
yeah it's extraordinarily important time
to be fully conscious and fully active
we can make sure thinking about that and
it's interesting it does feel like
things are really kind of speeding up
and you know sometimes I'm like oh you
know you always kind of hear that as you
get older time seems to be speeding up
but even you know talk to people that
are older and things just seem to be
happening quicker and quicker and it is
really interesting do I can't like hold
on to anything you know it's like once
you kind of grass onto it something else
has already changed form you know it's
yeah yeah so many of our not only our
technology is driving yeah this way but
our social customs you know just they're
dissolving right out from underneath
does the standards of truth are changing
and it's a confusing time and it's a
it's a dangerous time and it's a hard
time Wow
it's an extraordinarily exciting time it
is do you see psychedelics aiding in
this in any way yeah absolutely I think
that the ways in which psychedelics have
come back into our culture both from the
Central American and South American
cultures which have kept this tradition
alive the the new psychedelics ease you
know LSD is often compared to the atom
bomb raids they were discovered at the
same time
this exponential this opportunity to
explore dimensions of consciousness that
previously previous generations for the
most part and classically have had to
spend lifetimes meditating in order just
to get access to some of them and now
people of even modest spiritual
capacities can have temporary
experiences of these realities which
have a profound they require a profound
redrafting of our
essential assumptions about how life
works and that we can do this we can
engage these these dimensions of
consciousness up for recreational
purposes - not even for healing purposes
we can engage them systematically for
educational and deep transformational
purposes not only for our own personal
transformation but we can we can work on
behalf of the collected in these states
of consciousness I mean I think
psychedelics have just they have that's
that's what I saw when I first read Stan
Grossberg I thought wow this is going to
change everything
it's going to be a true before and after
development we're gonna it's like the
invention of the Essie scented
microscope or biology and the telescope
for astronomy it just increases the
quantity of data we have access to so
that it changes it forces a radical
revision of our theoretical
understanding I think psychedelics are
part of it and just in time as we
haven't very little time yeah yeah it
feels that way
yeah it's coming out it's very fast very
fast cool so I hate to end the podcast
but we're at over an hour and I don't I
want to be respectful of your time and I
really appreciate this this is a very
enlightening episode can you tell us a
little bit about where people can find
your book and perhaps the upcoming
audiobook they can find the book on
Amazon I'm just putting the final edits
on the audiobook I'm not sure that will
be released through inner traditions I'm
not quite sure what the vehicle will be
for that but it should be out hopefully
by the beginning beginning of the year I
will have a website hopefully by the 1st
of the year I'm Way overdue in revising
this website and getting it posted but
eventually within a month or so people
will be able to find me at Christmas
calm that's going to be the easiest way
right now
most of my written work and some
tapes are collected at academia.edu
under my name you can find them listed
there but right now I'm not as good on
social media as I should be it's hard to
keep up with ya only do one it's not
worth being with ya the most what's
really exciting is the book is finally
out and it's as clear of presentation of
this material as I've been able to take
me five years to put it together and
bring it forward and it says it's as
good as I can tell the story well thank
you for all your work and really
appreciate you joining us on the show
today
thank you guys it's been a real honor I
really appreciate the work you're doing
keep it up and you keep getting the word
out you know you guys are social
catalyst we need all those social
catalyst and we can get these days thank
you
yeah well we'll keep playing along thank
you for tuning in to psychedelics today
this interview with dr. chris boucher
was super interesting for me and I
really can't wait to dig into his work
more it sounds super fascinating and I
really hope you enjoyed it if you did or
didn't let us know psychedelics today
email at gmail.com we'd really like to
hear feedback if you want to support the
show we accept small monthly donations
over at patreon.com slash psychedelics
today if you want to do it at no charge
you can just tell a friend and also
leave us a review on Facebook or iTunes
or your podcast app any of those places
helped a ton so please you know just
take a quick minute to help us out and
be much appreciated we also have a
course called navigating psychedelics
for clinicians and therapists coming up
class starts February 6 and we are very
excited about it's an eight-week course
goes through the end of March and it is
extraordinary tons of pre-recorded
content class time with Kyle and I to
discuss ideas will also have cast
teachers there's master
and much more we facilitate the class on
zoom' as a kind of web platform so it's
video you get to see our faces we can
see your faces if you want to let us see
your faces and we get to chat and work
through a lot of this material together
so I hope you are interested if you are
check it out psychedelic Education
Center calm or psychedelics today calm
to find the link for this course for
clinicians and therapists and I think
that's it for now thank you all for
tuning in to psychedelics today this is
Joe a signing off from Breckenridge
Colorado see you on the next episode
buh-bye
[Music]
you